# 3. Attacking discrimination with smarter machine learning

Source : [Google](https://research.google.com/bigpicture/attacking-discrimination-in-ml/)

### Giving Loan Problem
- Setting)
  - Two demographic groups
    - with different distribution on the default rate.
- Loan Giving Strategies
  - Max Profit
    - Goal)
      - Just maximize the total profit.
    - Result)
      - Maximum profit.
      - The blue group is held to a higher standard than the orange one.
        - Unfair for the blue group.
  - Group Unaware
    - Goal)
      - Hold all groups to the same standard
    - Result)
      - Poorest profit.
      - Unfairness
        - If there are real differences between two groups, it might not be fair to ignore them
          - e.g.) Women generally pay less for life insurance than men, since they tend to live longer.
        - The orange group actually gets fewer loans when the bank looks for the most profitable group-unaware threshold.
  - Demographic Parity
    - Goal)
      - Let two groups receive the same number of loans.
        - i.e.) Fix **positive rate** for both blue and orange group to 37%.
    - Result)
      - Fewer qualified people in the blue group being given loans than in the orange group
      - A demographic parity constraint only looks at loans given, not rates at which loans are paid back.
        - Doesn't care about the default!
  - Equal Opportunity (Hardt, Price, and Srebro)
    - Goal)
      - Fix TPR for each group to 68%.
    - Result)
      - It's possible to efficiently find thresholds that meet any of these criteria.
        - i.e.) Although we don't know the underlying scoring system, we can prevent the discrimination.