# 4. Equality of Opportunity in Supervised Learning

- Target
  - Avoiding discrimination against protected attributes in machine learning
- Existing Solutions
  - Fairness through unawareness
    - How?)
      - Ignore all protected attributes such as race, color, religion, gender, disability, or family status.
    - Problem)
      - Ineffective due to the existence of redundant encodings
  - Demographic Parity
    - How?)
      - A decision be independent of the protected attribute.
        - i.e.)
          - For a binary protected attribute $`A\in\{0,1\}`$
            - set constraint : $`\text{Pr}\left[\hat{Y}=1\vert A = 0\right] = \text{Pr}\left[\hat{Y}=1\vert A = 1\right]`$
          - Membership in a protected class should have no correlation with the decision
    - Problem)
      - Does not ensure fairness
        - Why?)
          - Accepting qualified applicants in $`A=0`$ and unqualified ones in $`A=1`$, so long as the percentages of acceptance match.
      - Often far from maximum utility.

### Goal)
- Non-discrimination from the perspective of supervised learning
- Predict a true outcome $`Y`$ from features $`X`$ based on labeled training data
  - while ensuring they are “non-discriminatory” with respect to a specified protected attribute $`A`$.
- Assumptions)
  - Access to labeled training data (including $`A`$)
    - Samples from the joint distribution $`p(X, A, Y)`$
    - Predictor : $`\hat{Y}(X)`$ or $`\hat{Y}(X, A)`$
      - This predictor can be accurate, i.e. $`\hat{Y} = Y`$
  - Obliviousness
    - $`\hat{Y}`$ is based only on the joint distribution $`p(X, A, Y)`$.
    - It does not evaluate the features in $`X`$ nor the functional form of the predictor $`\hat{Y}(X)`$.


### What the author achieved.
- An easily checkable and interpretable notion of avoiding discrimination based on protected attributes.
  - Our notion helps to incentivize the collection of better features, that depend more directly on the target rather then the protected attribute, and of data that allows better prediction for all protected classes.
- the **Bayes optimal non-discriminating (according to our definition) classifier** is the classifier derived from any Bayes optimal (not necessarily non-discriminating) regressor using our post-processing step. M
- Inherent limitations of this approach
  - Different dependency structures with possibly different intuitive notions of fairness cannot be separated based on any oblivious notion or test.