[Back to Main](../main.md)

# 14. File I/O, Collections, and Tries
### Concept) Stream-Based Reader
- Desc.)
  - Data is primarily read from front to back, not much skipping around
  - Key methods : `close`, `mark`, `read`, `reset`, `skip`
- e.g.) 
  - Java's `BufferedReader`
- When to use?)
  - When the data fits in memory.
    - Thus, we just need to read everything once and come back to it.
  - When we’re not strictly required to preserve the original order of the data.
    - Then, we can just read the file start to finish, processing **line by line**.


<br>

### Concept) Random Access Files
- Desc.)
  - File cursor can be easily moved to arbitrary position in the file
  - Key methods : `close`, `read`, `seek`, `skip`
- e.g.)
  - Java's `RandomAccessFile`
- When to use?)
  - When data is way larger than the memory.
  - When you may need to come back to different positions a bunch of different times

<br><br>

### Concept) Java Collections
- Desc.)
  - `java.util.Collections`
  - Objects here share the following methods.   
    |Name|Use|
    |:-:|:-|
    |`frequency(Collection c, Object o)`|Count how often `o` appears in `c`.|
    |`max(Collection c)` <br> `min(Collection c)`|Find the largest/smallest elements in `c` based on the natural ordering of elements.|
    |`shuffle(List l)`|Permute the elements in `l` randomly|
    |`sort(List l)`|Sorts the list `l` into ascending order based on the natural ordering of the elements.|
    - Or we can customize the ordering by providing the `Comparator`.
      |Name|Use|
      |:-:|:-|
      |`max(Collection c, Comparator comp)` <br> `min(Collection c, Comparator comp)`|Find the largest/smallest elements in `c` based on the result of `comp.compare()`.|
      |`sort(List l, Comparator comp)`|Sorts the list `l` into ascending order based on the result of `comp.compare()`.|

<br><br>

### Concept) Trie
- Def.)
  - A tree-based data structure used to find words in a dictionary based on the prefixes of that word
    - cf.) re**trie**val
- Props.)
  - Each node represents a prefix.
  - If node `n` is a descendent of node `m`, then the string that `m` represents is a prefix of the string that `n` represents.
  - Tries are 26-ary trees for English.
    - Why?) a-z : 26 characters.
  - Trie Nodes do not necessarily need to contain a char/String




<br><br>

[Back to Main](../main.md)