[Back to Main](../main.md)

# 20. Graph II

### Concept) Topological Sort
- Goal.)
  - Find an acceptable order for processing subtasks.
  - Find the list of vertices in an order s.t. no prerequisites are violated.
    - e.g.) Getting possible course plan with prerequisites
- Def.)
  - The process of laying out the vertices of [DAG](19.md#concept-cycle) in a linear order
    - s.t. no vertex $`A`$ in the order is preceded by a vertex that can be reached by a directed path from $`A`$.
- Implementations)
  - Using [DFS](19.md#concept-depth-first-search-dfs)...
    ```
    void TopologicalSort(Vertice v, List output){
        if (v is visited){
            return;
        }
        for neighbor in v.neighbors{
            TopologicalSort(neighbor, output);
        }
        output.append(v);
        return;
    }

    List sorted_output;
    for v in V{
        TopologicalSort(v, output);
    }
    ```
    - Desc.)
      - This method produces a topological sort in reverse order.
  - Using [queue](05.md#concept-queue)...
    - Algorithm)
      - Count the number of edges that lead to each vertex.
      - All vertices with no prerequisites are placed on the queue.
      - While queue is not empty...
        - Dequeue an element. 
        - Suppose v is dequeued. Append v to the result container.
        - Decrement the counts of v's neighbors by one.
        - Enqueue any neighbor whose count becomes zero.
    - Desc.)
      - This method produces a topological sort in right order.

<br>

### Concept) Shortest-Paths Problems
- Goal.)
  - Find the total length of the shortest path between two specified vertices
- Unweighted vs Weighted Paths
  ||Unweighted Path|Weighted Path|
  |:-:|:-|:-|
  |Prop.)|Passing each edge has identical cost.|Each edge has different costs|
  |Sol.)|[BFS](19.md#concept-breadth-first-search-bfs)|[Dijkstra's Algorithm](#concept-dijkstras-algorithm)|


<br>

### Concept) Dijkstra's Algorithm
- Idea)
  - Process the vertices in a fixed order using greedy algorithm.
  - How)
    - Let
      - `s` : the starting vertex
      - `N` : the set over vertices that has $`i-1`$ vertices that are closest to `s`.
      - `x` : the `i`-th closest vertex to `s`.
    - Now consider a vertex `u` in `N`.
    - Then the shortest path from `s` to `x` is the minimum overall paths that go from `s` to `u` and then from `u` to `x`.
- Algorithm)   
  $`\begin{array}{l}
    \text{while } Q \text{ is not empty:} \\
    \quad u\leftarrow Q.\text{extract\_min}() \\
    \quad\text{for each neighbor } v \text{ of } u: \\
    \quad\quad \text{alt} \leftarrow \text{dist}[u] + \text{Graph.edges}(u,v) \\
    \quad\quad \text{if alt} \lt \text{dist}[v]: \\
    \quad\quad\quad \text{dist}[v] \leftarrow \text{alt} \\
    \quad\quad\quad \text{prev}[v] \leftarrow u \\
    \quad\quad\quad Q.\text{decrease\_priority}(v, \text{alt})
  \end{array}`$
- Runtime Analysis)
  - Depending on the way of calculating the minimum distance between vertices...
    - Using a linear data structure takes $`O(\vert V \vert^2)`$ time.
      - Thus, appropriate when the graph is dense.
        - i.e.) Less number of edges compared to vertices.
    - Using the priority queue takes $`O((\vert V\vert + \vert E\vert)\log \vert E\vert)`$ time.
      - Thus, appropriate when the graph is sparse.


<br>

### Concept) Minimal Cost Spanning Trees (MCST)
- Goal)
  - Find the subset of the (weighted) graph's edges that maintains the connectivity of the graph while having the lowest total cost.
- Assumptions)
  - Cost : the sum of weights of the edges
  - No cycle
    - Why?) Tree!
- Algorithms that will be used
  - [Prim's Algorithm](#concept-prims-algorithm)
  - [Kruskal's Algorithm](#concept-kruskals-algorithm)

<br>

#### Concept) Prim's Algorithm
- Algorithm)
  - 1] Start with any vertex $`N`$ in the graph.
    - The MCST is initialized to have only one vertex $`N`$.
  - 2] Pick the least-cost edge connected to $`N`$.
    - Let $`M`$ be the vertex connected by least the edge.
    - Add the edge $`E(N, M)`$ and the vertex $`M`$ to the MCST.
  - 3] Pick the least-cost edge coming from either $`N`$ or $`M`$ to any other vertex in the graph.
    - Add this edge and the new connected vertex to the MCST.
  - 4] Continue 2] and 3].

<br>

#### Concept) Kruskal's Algorithm
- Desc.)
  - d

<br>













<br><br>

[Back to Main](../main.md)