- [Back to Main](../main.md)

# 9. Conditional Probability
- Def.)
  - $`\displaystyle P(E|F) = \frac{P(E \cap F)}{P(F)}`$
- e.g.)
  - Settings)
    - Rolling a red die and a blue die.
    - $`E`$ : the event of the two dice summing to 11
    - $`F`$ : the event of the blue die has the value of 5
  - Then
    - $`\displaystyle P(E \cap F) = \frac{1}{36}`$
    - $`\displaystyle P(F) = \frac{6}{36}`$
  - Thus,    
    - $`\displaystyle P(E|F) = \frac{1}{6}`$
- Usage)
  - Conditional probability can be used to **split** up the probability of an event conditioned by the occurrence of some other event.
    - e.g.)
      - Settings)
        - A student knows 80% of the material on a true-false exam.
        - If the student knows the material, she has a 95% chance of getting it right.
        - If the student does not know the material she just guesses and as expected has just a 50% chance of getting it right.
      - Question)
        - What is the probability of getting the question right?
      - Sol.)
        - Then
          - $`P(Know) = 0.8`$
          - $`\displaystyle P(Right|Know) = \frac{P(Right \cap Know)}{P(Know)} = 0.95 \Rightarrow P(Right \cap Know) = 0.8\times0.95 = 0.76`$
          - $`\displaystyle P(Right|Know^c) = \frac{P(Right \cap Know^c)}{P(Know^c)} = 0.5 \Rightarrow P(Right \cap Know^c) = 0.2\times0.5 = 0.1`$
        - Thus, $`P(Right) = P(Right \cap Know) + P(Right \cap Know^c) = 0.86`$

<br><br>

### Concept) Independence
- Def.)
  - $`E \textrm{ and } F \textrm{ are independent if } \begin{cases}
    P(E|F) = P(E) \\ P(E \cap F) = P(E)P(F) \\ P(F|E) = P(F)
  \end{cases}`$

<br><br>

### Concept) Bayes Theorem
- Theorem)
  - Suppose that $`F`$ and $`X`$ are events from a common sample space and $`P(F) \ne 0`$ and $`P(X) \ne 0`$.
  - Then $`\displaystyle P(F|X) = \frac{P(X|F)P(F)}{P(X|F)P(F) + P(X|F^c)P(F^c)}`$
- e.g.) Cigar $${\color{red} \star \; Be careful! \star }$$
  - Question)
    - In Orange County, 51% of the adult population is above the age of 35. 
    - One adult is randomly selected for a survey involving credit card usage.
      - Q1) Find the prior probability that the selected person is above 35.
      - Q2) It is later learned that the selected survey subject was smoking a cigar. 
        - Also, 9.5% of adults above 35 smoke cigars, whereas only 1.7% of adults 35 and below smoke cigars. 
        - Use this additional information to find the probability that the selected subject is above 35.
  - Sols.)
    - A1) $`P(Age35) = 0.51`$
    - A2)
      - $`P(Age35 \cap Cigar) = 0.51 \times 0.095`$
      - $`P(Age35^c \cap Cigar) = 0.49 \times 0.017`$
      - Then $`P(Cigar) = 0.51 \times 0.095 + 0.49 \times 0.017`$
      - Then $`\displaystyle P(Age35 | Cigar) = \frac{P(Age35 \cap Cigar)}{P(Cigar)} = \frac{0.51 \times 0.095}{0.51 \times 0.095 + 0.49 \times 0.017}`$
- e.g.) Medical Test $${\color{red} \star \; Be careful! \star }$$
  - Question)
    - There is a medical test that has been designed to screen for a disease that affects 5 in 1000 people. 
    - Suppose the false positive rate is 3% and the false negative rate is 1%.
    - What is the probability that a randomly chosen person who tests positive actually has the disease?
  - Sol.)
    - According to the condtions
      - $`P(Disease) = 0.005`$
      - $`P(Positive \cap Disease^c) = 0.03 \times 0.995`$
      - $`P(Positive^c \cap Disease) = 0.01 \times 0.005`$
    - Then $`P(Positive \cap Disease) = 0.99 \times 0.005`$
    - Thus,    
      $`\begin{aligned}
        P(Disease | Positive) &= \frac{P(Positive \cap Disease)}{P(Positive)} = \frac{P(Positive \cap Disease)}{P(Positive \cap Disease^c) + P(Positive \cap Disease)} \\
        &= \frac{0.99 \times 0.005}{0.99 \times 0.005 + 0.03 \times 0.995} \approx 0.1422
      \end{aligned}`$


<br><br>

- [Back to Main](../main.md)