### Seminar Type
- EAS Webinar

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-09-28

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Emily Parry

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Penn Engineering

<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
This talk was a job search guide for Penn Engineering Master's student. During her speech, Emily Parry outlines a strategic timeline, highlighting the importance of summer preparation for the Fall and Spring on-campus recruiting seasons. She suggests students to brand their advanced degree by showcasing the initiative and resilience, accompanied with the combination of transferable skill sets such as project management.

Another significant component is the networking. Conducting informational interviews and asking meaningful questions about the challenges that a team encountered can be a effective way of demonstrating that the interviewee is a good problem solver. Emily also stresses the importance of participating in group projects because they are key ways to showcase the practical application of skills as well as teamwork. She also provides a template for cold outreach, and strongly recommends to use tools such as companies' own hiring websites, and platforms such as Handshake and LinkedIn. Especially for the international students, Emily highlights the resources such as Penn's First Destination Survey and Going Global to search for firms that have previously sponsored visas. These could be the effective starting point for the job search.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
This webinar provides a practical guide for the Master's students looking for jobs. It illustrates the exact time line for the on-campus recruiting and suggests the optimal schedule to make the most out of it. It also introduces platforms which can be invaluable resource for the recruitment.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
The well organized time line diagram for the on-campus recruiting was especially helpful. I could schedule my job search plan based on it. Also, Penn's First Destination Survey and Going Global might be useful as well.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
I want to search the materials at Penn's First Destination Survey and Going Global.

<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)