### Seminar Type
- e.g.) Professional Development Webinar

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-09-20

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Emily Perry

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Penn Engineering

<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
- This was a presentation by Emily Perry offering a comprehensive guide to behavioral interview for students at Penn Engineering. She emphasized that the preparation is critical for success. Before the interview, she recommended us to thoroughly research the company, its goals, and the job description. Also, we should practice answering possible questions aloud, and prepare our own questions to ask the interviewer. Other logistics such as professional attire and brining multiple copies of our resume was also important.
During the interview, we should be confident using strong non-verbal cues and also be prepared to discuss everything that we wrote on our resume. Especially when answering questions related to our past failures, we should be authentic, describing how we overcame the hardships, and explain the lessons that we learned. When the interview is over, we should send a thank-you follow-up email within 48 hours. Finally, we must follow up based on the timeline provided by the interviewer to indicate that we are still interested in that position.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
- This webinar is designed to provide a practical guide for students who are preparing for the behavioral interview. Specifically, it seems the presentation is more focused on the interviews related to the computer science department. It covers the overall process of the interview along with the detailed tips that can be very helpful to the interviewees.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
- It suggested the outfit that we should wear for the interview. This could be something obvious to others, but it was always a big question for me whether to wear the suit or not. Finally, I can show up wearing my suit with confidence.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
- Subjects that can be asked are briefly listed during the presentation. I plan to prepare my answers to those questions.

<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)