### Seminar Type
- EAS Webinar

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-09-28

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Emily Parry

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Penn Engineering


<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
Emily Parry from Penn Engineering outlines effective LinkedIn usage. Her advice can be divided into three core areas.

First is optimizing the profile. She treats LinkedIn as a search engine. So, rather than using the default headline, it would be better to use relevant keywords found in the job descriptions to increase the applicant's search visibility and chance of being noticed by the recruiters. Then, in the experience section, the applicants may add more detailed descriptions, and list skills to featuring the most impressive and technical one at the top.

Secondly, she mentions the strategic networking. Alumni search or professional groups could be a powerful tool to find the right people for getting a job. When requesting to connect, the applicants should always send a personalized message illustrating the specific reason for reaching out.

Third is the active engagement. Considering that most users are passive, actively engaging itself can be an aspect that make an applicant stand out. Following target companies accounts, relevant hashtags, and posting one's own professional contents can be a effective way of demonstrating the genuine interest and expertise in that target industry. Surprisingly, the majority of the users underestimate the importance of being active.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
This webinar was a hands-on guide of how to effectively utilize LinkedIn for job search. Emily shared invaluable tips that anyone could follow right away. Especially, by sharing her screen and demonstrating the exact usage of each function, audiences could easily follow her guidance.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
She shared her tip of how to optimize the profile. And, she made me realize how important the networking is. Finally, I learned how to actively engage in the LinkedIn society.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
I think I should start editing my LinkedIn profile first, to stand out.

<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)