### Seminar Type
- Webinar

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-09-21

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Emily Parry

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
- Penn Engineering

<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
In her presentation, Emily highlighted that a tailored cover letter is important. And, it should not be treated as an optional part of the job application. She strongly suggested not using a generic template because a personalized cover letter is a powerful tool to showcase communication skills and makes you stand out.

Cover Letter should elaborate the contents on your resume, rather than just summarizing them. Rather than just listing the experiences, we should articulate specific stories that highlight our skills and lessons that we gained.

She also shared her core formula of structuring the body paragraphs around two to three key requirements listed on the job posting. We should then provide detailed evidence illustrating how we mastered those requirements. With those contents taking up the body paragraph, the intro may state who the applicant is, and the description of the role that we are applying for. The conclusion can be the recap of our interest and gratitude to the readers for their time and effort. Although a single template may be useless, we may create a pool of body paragraphs targeting each requirements, and may reuse them for applications that ask for similar needs.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
This talk guides job seekers having trouble with writing a cover letter. For some international students, the concept of cover letter itself can be very unfamiliar. Thus, this seminar could be a critical opportunity to get to learn how to appeal to the employers. 



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
Emily provided a useful structure of forming the cover letter into the introduction, the, body, and the conclusion. She provided how to fill in those parts with appropriate materials. She even shared her example cover letter, so that the audience can better understand how those concepts are actually applied in the real case. 



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
I think I should start writing my own cover letter aligned with the requirements that the employer stated.


<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)