### Seminar Type
- EAS Webinar

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-10-19

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Emily Parry

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Penn Engineering


<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
Emily Parry outlines an effective networking approach for students. She categorizes initial outreach into three: cold outreach, using common connection, and distant. For cold outreach, providing a full introduction, a clear and concise reason for contact, and a specific call to action is critical. The value statement is a key tool to elaborate one's passion, related experience, and future goals. This also works as a response to the interview question of introducing oneself.

She also recommends a follow-up email plan that is persistent but not being too pushy. After an initial email, one may send a second email 4 to 7 days later, and finally the last one a week later. Especially, if one intends to keep connection, he or she may schedule time quarterly to reconnect. Meanwhile, one should keep detailed notes on the previous talks. Or, engaging with contacts' LinkedIn professional updates could be a a good strategy as well.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
For foreigners who are not familiar with the American networking culture, it is hard even to begin. This talk suggest a complete guide starting from the cold outreach to maintaining the contact. The speaker provides practical details such as reminder schedule.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
How to initiate with the cold outreach was especially helpful. It was relieving to realize that people like to help. I could try reaching out to people with more confidence.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
I will start reaching out to people.


<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)