### Seminar Type
- Beyond Grad School

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-10-15

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Maren Wood

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Penn Engineering


<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
Dr. Maren Wood points out that students get stressed when their messages to the recruiters are ignored. However, she stresses out that recruiters are only a small part of the hiring process. The majority of the US companies, which are small businesses, do not hire recruiters. Additionally, those recruiters who are hired by the massive corporations, whether they are internal corporate employees or selective 3rd-party agents, often disregard messages even if they are generic. It may be due to the fact that they are from unqualified candidates, or simply sent when they aren't actively hiring for a suitable job.

Instead, investing more on networking is a more effective strategy. A vast majority of jobs are filled through employee referrals. And, many positions are never even publicly posted. Thus, building professional relationships with employees at target companies is the most trustworthy method to have your resume seen by a person who's looking for a candidate. This approach not only helps you bypass the current AI driven job market but also provide you valuable insights into the company culture. She argues that this would be more productive use of time compared to chasing recruiters.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
Most students looking for job get frustrated when their messages are ignored by the recruiters. This talk shows that reaching out to recruiters is not an effective approach. It provides better alternative of building networks with the employees from the target companies.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
I was also concerned why my messages were frequently ignored. Listening to Dr. Woods speech, I realized that this was not a red flag. I should focus more on building networks.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
Find ways to build professional network with people from the target companies.


<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)