### Seminar Type
- Beyond Graduate school

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-10-01

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Maren Wood

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Beyond Graduate School


<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
Avoiding the black hole of mass online applications is the key to success in the current AI-driven job market. Statistics say that an individual employer receives over 250 applications per job posting and only the 8% of them actually lead to an interview. Although the current recruitment system seems to be broken, the core principle still remains: people hire people. Thus, the idealistic strategy is to stand out by building human connections in the real world.

Dr. Wood recommends the audience to dedicate at least 80% of the job search time solely to networking. She stressed to proactively build relationships through informal interview with alumni, professional organization, and personal contacts. It would be more effective if they were built before the job openings are posted because the hiring managers already know who the applicant is and pull his or her application from the pile.

Although AI can be a useful tool for editing and formatting, applicants should never rely 100% on them. Letting the write documents will make those documents sound generic and average. This may not convey each applicant's unique value or cultural fit. She again highlighted that the goal is to connect with people. She argued that showcasing personalities and skills can bypass the current flawed online system.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
Dr. Wood points out that current job market is somewhat broken due to the surge of AI. But she stresses that applicants still be successful. And, she elaborates the ways to do so.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
I could confirm my idea that current recruitment system is going awkward. Nevertheless, it was relieving that there's still some ways to stand out in it. Again, reassured the importance of networking.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
I think I should search through LinkedIn to get more connections.

<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)