### Seminar Type
- Beyond Grad School

<br>

### Date of the Seminar
- 2025-11-05

<br>

### Name of the Speaker
Susan Joudrey

<br>

### Affiliation of Seminar Speaker (If unknown, list the company name or office the speaker represents)
Beyond Grad School


<br>

### Rating of Speaker Quality (highest = best)



<br>

### Summary of Talk (minimum 150 words).
In this webinar, Susan Joudrey points out three common mistakes that graduate students make on Linked in and outlines how they can effectively utilize the platform. Joudrey stressed out that about 85% of the hiring is driven by networking and referrals in the US, with 70% of the jobs existing in the hidden job market.
The first common mistake that students make is that they create incomplete or unprofessional profile. Forward looking is a good way to correct this. Students may use headline to describe their career goals. Listing titles such as Master's student is not effective at all. And for the experience section, highlighting with action verbs can be a good way to demonstrate one's skills.
The second mistake is being active. The speaker further explains that users can customize their account by intentionally engaging with content, following certain companies, and joining group, which trains the algorithm to bring more valuable information to them.
The last mistake is treating networking as transactional. Not like most students think, networking must be authentic and relational. When connecting with someone else, users should send a personal message that explains the context and intention. For example, why messaging them and what you want ask. Most of all, the quality of the connection is the most important.


<br>

### How would you define the purpose of this event/presentation (at least 3 sentences)?
The speaker argues that networking is a critical part in job hunting and LinkedIn is a powerful tool to support this. She further diagnoses that main reasons most students struggle with fully utilizing it can be categorized into three common mistakes. By informing those mistakes to grad students, she provides hands-on guides on effectively using the platform.



<br>

### What part of the presentation was most useful to your learning or goals (at least 3 sentences)?
I had hardship building network with people using LinkedIn. After listening to Susan's talk, I realized what my mistake was. I decided to be more active and participating in LinkedIn.



<br>

### What topics were introduced that you would like to explore more deeply on your own time (at least once sentence). 
Search what groups that I might join in LinkedIn.

<br><br>


- [Submission URL](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeV8yG6jefnBEMsu4bvE2TtlR_hiAsjM4yiV898Y_uMfonaPA/formResponse)