- [Back to Main](../main.md)

# 4. Sum and Product

### Concept) Product Rule
- Def.)
  - A counting rule form the concept of [Cartesian products](02.md#concept-cartesian-product).
    - i.e.) $`|A\times B| = |A||B|`$
- Prop.)
  - Consider the $`\mathbf{AND}`$ relationship.
  - Not distinguishing between options.
    - i.e.) $`A_i B_j`$ and $`B_j A_i`$ are indifferent.
- e.g.)
  - How many possible 3 digit numbers?
    - $`9\times 10\times 10 = 900`$

<br>

### Concept) Sum Rule
- Def.)
  - A counting rule form the concept of the $`\mathbf{OR}`$ relationship.
- e.g.)
  - Consider the mutually disjoint $`n`$ sets $`A_1, A_2, \cdots, A_n`$.
    - i.e.) $`A_i \cap A_j = \emptyset, i \ne j`$
  - Then $`|A_1 \cup A_2 \cup \cdots \cup A_n| = |A_1| + |A_2| + \cdots + |A_n|`$

<br>

### Problem) Combining the Product and Sum rule
#### P.1)
- Question) 
  - How many passwords can be made using just upper and lower case letters that are between 4 and 8 characters long?
- Sol.)
  - $`\displaystyle \sum_{k=4}^8 (26\times 2)^k`$

<br>

#### P.2)
- Question) 
  - Three officers - a president, a treasurer and a secretary - are to be chosen from among four people. A, B, C and D. 
  - Suppose for whatever reason A cannot be president and either C or D must be secretary. 
  - How many ways can these officers be chosen?
- Sol.)
  - Case 1) C is the secretary.
    - Two options for the president : B and D.
    - Two options for the treasurer : A and the one left.
    - Thus, 4 ways are available.
  - Case 2) D is the secretary.
    - Without the loss of generality 4 ways are available.
  - Therefore, 8 ways are available.

<br>

#### P.3)
- Question) 
  - How many different 4-letter radio station call letters can be made if the first letter can be a K or a W and no letters can be repeated. 
  - A radio station call letter is something like WKYP or KXPN etc.
- Sol.)
  - Case 1) Starting with K.
    - $`25\times 24\times 23`$
  - Case 1) Starting with W.
    - $`25\times 24\times 23`$
  - Therefore, $`2\times 25\times 24\times 23`$.

<br>

#### P.4)
- Question) 
  - A wedding photographer wants to take a bunch of pictures of Ann and Bob’s wedding. 
  - There are 10 people in total (including Ann and Bob) but the photographer can only fit 6 of them into a picture at any given time. 
  - How many different pictures are there if Ann must be in the picture?
    - where pictures are considered different if different people are placed in different locations.
- Sol.)
  - 6 positions that Ann can take in the picture.
  - $`_9 P_5`$ ways to fill in the rest of the positions with 9 people.
  - Thus, $`6 \times _9 P_5`$.

<br>

#### P.5)
- Question) 
  - How many functions are there from a 3 element set to a 4 element set? 
  - How many of them are one to one?
- Sol.)
  - $`4^3`$
  - $`_4 P_3`$

<br><br>

### Concept) Bijection Principle
- Def.)
  - A set $`X`$ and a set $`Y`$ have the same number of elements iff. there is some [bijection](03.md#concept-bijection) between the two sets.
- e.g.)
  - Question)
    - 30 teams qualify for a new form of the World Cup where every single game is a knockout.
    - If you lose, you are out. 
    - How many games need to be played before we declare a winner?
  - Answer)
    - 29 games.
  - Why?)
    - The mapping between a game and its loser is bijection.
    - Ultimately, there will be 29 losers.
    - Thus, there will be 29 games held.


<br><br>

- [Back to Main](../main.md)