- [Back to Main](../main.md)

# 7. Basic Probabilities
#### Concept) Experiment
- Def.)
  - An **experiment** is a procedure that results in one out of a number of possible outcomes.

<br>

#### Concept) Sample Space
- Def.)
  - The set of all possible outcomes is called the **sample space** of the [experiment](#concept-experiment).

<br>

#### Concept) Event
- Def.)
  - A subset of the [sample space](#concept-sample-space) is called an event.

<br>

#### e.g.) Two dies
- Settings)
  - An [experiment](#concept-experiment) in which a red and a blue die are thrown.
  - We will denote a single outcome by an ordered pair where the first number denotes the outcome on the blue one and second number denotes the outcome on the red one.
- Then
  - Sample Space : $`S = \{(x,y)|1\le x\le 6, 1\le y\le 6, x\in\mathbb{Z}, y\in\mathbb{Z} \}`$
  - Event
    - Having double : $`E = \{(1,1), (2,2), (3,3), (4,4), (5,5), (6,6) \}`$

<br><br>

### Concept) Probability Distribution
- Def.)
  - A **probability distribution** over an [experiment](#concept-experiment) with a [sample space](#concept-sample-space) of $`S`$ is a function $`p`$ from $`S`$ to the set $`[0, 1]`$.
- Props.)
  - $`\displaystyle \sum_{s\in S} p(s) = 1`$
  - $`\displaystyle p(E) =  \sum_{s\in E} p(s)`$ : the probability of $`E`$
    - where $`E \subseteq S`$ is an event.

<br><br>

### Concept) Uniform Distribution
- Def.)
  - The [probability distribution](#concept-probability-distribution) in which every outcome has the same probability is called the **uniform distribution**.
    - $`\displaystyle \forall s\in S, p(s) = \frac{1}{|S|}`$
      - where $`S`$ is the [sample space](#concept-sample-space).
- Prop.)
  - $`\displaystyle p(E) = \frac{|E|}{|S|}`$

<br>

#### E.g.) File Safety 
$${\color{red} \star \; Be careful! \star }$$
- Settings)
  - Multiple copies of a file are stored around the network.
    - Three copies of a files are stored at different locations in a network of 30 computers.
  - At a particular moment, five random computers fail.
    - Each subset of 5 computers are equally likely to be the five that have failed. 
- Question) 
  - What is the probability that there are no copies left of the file?
- Sol.)
  - The sample space : Choosing five computers that fails.
    - $`\begin{pmatrix} 30\\5 \end{pmatrix}`$
  - Event that no copy is left
    - Three computers storing files are chosen : $`\begin{pmatrix} 3\\3 \end{pmatrix}`$
    - Rest two computers chosen : $`\begin{pmatrix} 27\\2 \end{pmatrix}`$
  - Finally,
    - $`\displaystyle p = \frac{\begin{pmatrix} 3\\3 \end{pmatrix} \begin{pmatrix} 27\\2 \end{pmatrix}}{\begin{pmatrix} 30\\5 \end{pmatrix}} = \frac{\begin{pmatrix} 27\\2 \end{pmatrix}}{\begin{pmatrix} 30\\5 \end{pmatrix}}`$

<br>

#### E.g.) Complementary Probability (Birthday)
- Q) How do we count the number of cases where at least 2 of the $`m`$ people have the same birthday?
  - Sol.) $`\displaystyle 1-\frac{P(365, m)}{365^m}`$




<br><br>

- [Back to Main](../main.md)