- [Back to Main](../main.md)

# 12. English with Logic
### Concept) Free Variable
- Desc.)
  - A variable $`x`$ in the [predicate](11.md#concept-predicate) $`P(x)`$ is said to be a free variable.
    - Why?)
      - $`x`$ is free to take any value in the domain.

<br>

### Concept) Bound Variable
- Desc.)
  - A variable $`x`$ in the [predicate](11.md#concept-predicate) $`\forall x P(x)`$ is said to be a bound variable.
    - Why?)
      - $`x`$ is bound to the [universal quantifier](11.md#concept-universal-quantifier).

<br>

### Concept) Nested Quantifiers
#### Same Quantifiers)
- $`\forall x \forall y`$
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \{\textrm{MCIT students}\}`$
      - $`F(x,y)`$ : $`x`$ and $`y`$ are friends on facebook.
    - Then $`\forall x \forall y F(x,y)`$ is False.
      - Why?)
        - Counter example : $`x = y`$.
      - Thus, it should be modified as $`\forall x \forall y ((x\ne y) \rightarrow F(x,y))`$ to be true.
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \mathbb{Q}`$
    - Then $`\forall x \forall y ((x+y\ne x) \vee (y=0))`$ is true.
- $`\exists x \exists y`$
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \{\textrm{MCIT students}\}`$
      - $`P(x,y)`$ : $`x`$ has pair programmed with $`y`$
    - Then $`\exists x \exists y P(x,y)`$ is True iff. there is at least one such pair.

#### Alternate Quantifiers)
- $`\forall x \exists y`$
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \{\textrm{MCIT students}\}`$
      - $`P(x,y)`$ : $`x`$ has pair programmed with $`y`$
    - Then $`\forall x \exists y P(x,y)`$ is True iff. every MCIT student has pair programmed with some MCIT student”.
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \mathbb{Q}`$
    - Then $`\forall x \exists y (x+y = 0)`$ is True if $`y=-x`$.
- $`\exists x \forall y`$
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \{\textrm{MCIT students}\}`$
      - $`P(x,y)`$ : $`x`$ has pair programmed with $`y`$
    - Then $`\exists x \forall y P(x,y)`$ is True iff. there is a MCIT student has pair programmed with every MCIT student”.
  - e.g.)
    - Let
      - $`x, y \in \mathbb{Q}`$
    - Then $`\exists x \forall y (x+y = 0)`$ is False.
      - pf.)
        - Let $`y_1, y_2 \in \mathbb{Q} \textrm{ s.t. } y_1 \ne y_2`$.
        - Suppose $`\exists x \forall y (x+y = 0)`$ is true.
        - Then, $`x+y_1 = 0 \Leftrightarrow y_1 = -x`$.
        - Also, $`x+y_2 = 0 \Leftrightarrow y_2 = -x`$.
        - Therefore, $`y_1 = y_2 \cdots \otimes`$.

<br>

### Concept) Negations with Multiple Quantifiers
- e.g.)
  - Let 
    - $`x`$ : a student
    - $`y`$ : a food
    - $`E(x,y)`$ : $`x`$ has eaten $`y`$.
  - Then consider $`\exists x \forall y E(x,y)`$.
    - i.e.) There exists a student who has eaten all the foods.
  - The negation of this goes
    - $`\neg (\exists x \forall y E(x,y)) = \forall x \exists y \neg E(x,y)`$
      - i.e.) For each of all students, there exists a food that has not been eaten.

<br>

### Concept) Domain Expansion
- e.g.) Universal Quantifier Case
  - Statement : All mammals have hair.
  - Let
    - $`M`$ be the set of mammals.
    - $`A`$ be the set of animals.
    - $`H(x)`$ be the predicate that is true when $`x`$ has hair.
  - Then
    - $`\forall x \in M (H(x))`$.
  - Expanding the domain,
    - $`\forall x \in A (x \in M \rightarrow H(x))`$
- e.g.) Existential Quantifier Case
  - Statement : Some politicians are honest.
  - Let
    - $`P`$ be the set of politicians.
    - $`M`$ be the set of humans.
    - $`H(x)`$ be the predicate that is true when $`x`$ is honest.
  - Then
    - $`\exists x \in P (H(x))`$.
  - Expanding the domain,
    - $`\exists x \in A (x \in M \wedge H(x))`$

<br>

### Concept) Uniqueness
- e.g.)
  - Statement : Everyone has exactly one best friend.
  - Let
    - $`x, y, z`$ : friends.
    - $`B(x,y)`$ : a predicate that is true when $`x`$ and $`y`$ are best friends.
  - Then, the statement can be denoted as
    - $`\forall x \exists y (B(x,y) \wedge \forall z (y\ne z) \rightarrow \neg B(x,z))`$


<br>

### Concept) Interchange between ∧ and →
- e.g.)
  - Let
    - $`L(x)`$ : a predicate that is true when $`x`$ is a lion.
    - $`F(x)`$ : a predicate that is true when $`x`$ is fierce.
    - $`C(x)`$ : a predicate that is true when $`x`$ drinks coffee.
  - Then
    - $`\textrm{"All lions are fierce."} \Leftrightarrow \forall x (L(x)\rightarrow F(x))`$
    - $`\textrm{"Some lions don't drink coffee."} \Leftrightarrow \exists x (L(x)\wedge\neg C(x))`$
    - $`\textrm{"Some fierce creatures do not drink coffee."} \Leftrightarrow \exists x (F(x)\wedge\neg C(x))`$


<br><br>

- [Back to Main](../main.md)