- [Back to Main](../main.md)

# 15. Induction 1
### Concept) Idea behind Induction
- Consider proving a theorem for all natural numbers.
- Suppose we showed...
  - The thm. holds for 1.
  - If the thm. holds for $`n-1`$, then it will hold for $`n`$.
- Then, if we want to show the thm. holds for 5, we can do it by
  - Holds for 1.
  - Holds for 1 $`\Rightarrow`$ Holds for 2.
  - Holds for 2 $`\Rightarrow`$ Holds for 3.
  - Holds for 3 $`\Rightarrow`$ Holds for 4.
  - Holds for 4 $`\Rightarrow`$ Holds for 5.

<br>

### E.g.) Summations
- Target
  - Prove that $`\displaystyle \sum_{i=1}^n 2i-1 = n^2`$
- pf.)
  - $`n=1`$
    - $`\displaystyle \sum_{i=1}^1 2i-1 = 2-1 = 1 = 1^2`$
  - $`n=k-1`$
    - Then, $`\begin{aligned}
        \sum_{i=1}^{k-1} 2i-1 &= (k-1)^2
    \end{aligned}`$
    - Thus,    
      $`\begin{aligned}
        \sum_{i=1}^{k-1} 2i-1 +(2k-1) &= (k-1)^2 + (2k-1) \\
        &= (k^2-2k+1) + (2k-1) \\
        &= k^2
      \end{aligned}`$
      - i.e.) $`\displaystyle \sum_{i=1}^{k} 2i-1 = k^2`$

<br>

### E.g.) Inequalities
- Target
  - Which one is greater $`n! \textrm{ or } 2^n`$?
- pf.)
  - $`n=1`$
    - $`1! = 1 \lt 2 = 2^1`$
  - $`n=2`$
    - $`2! = 2\times 1 = 2 \lt 4 = 2^2`$
  - $`n=3`$
    - $`3! = 3\times 2\times 1 = 6 \lt 8 = 2^3`$
  - $`n=4`$
    - $`4! = 4\times 3\times 2\times 1 = 24 \gt 16 = 2^4`$
  - Consider $`k \gt 4`$.
    - Then   
      $`\begin{aligned}
        k! &= k\times k-1 \times \cdots\times 4  \times 3 \times 2 \times 1 \\
        &\gt \underbrace{2^2\times 2^2\times \cdots\times 4}_{k-3} \times \underbrace{3  \times 2 \times 1}_3 \\
        &= 2^{2(k-3)} * 6 \\
        &\gt 2^{2(k-3)} * 2^2 \\
        &= 2^{2k-4} \gt 2^k (\because k\gt 4)
      \end{aligned}`$
  - Therefore
    $`\begin{cases}
        n! \lt 2^n & n \lt 4 \\
        n! \gt 2^n & n \ge 4 \\
    \end{cases}`$

<br>

### E.g.) Divisibility
- Target
  - Prove that $`2^{n+2} + 3^{2n+1}`$ is divisible by $`7`$.
- pf. 1) Hozy   
  $`\begin{aligned}
    2^{n+2} + 3^{2n+1} &= 4\cdot 2^n + 3\cdot 9^n \\
    &= 4\cdot 2^n + 3\cdot (2+7)^n \\
    &= 4\cdot 2^n + 3\cdot \left( \sum_{i=0}^n {}_nC_i \cdot 2^i \cdot 7^{n-i} \right) \\
    &= 4\cdot 2^n + 3\cdot \left( _nC_0 \cdot 7^{n} +\cdots + _nC_{n-1} \cdot 2^{n-1} \cdot 7^{1} + _nC_{n} \cdot 2^{n} \right) \\
    &= 4\cdot 2^n + 3\cdot \left( 7\cdot \sum_{i=0}^{n-1}  {}_nC_i  \cdot 2^i  \cdot 7^{n-i-1} + 2^n \right) \\
    &= 7\cdot 2^n + 3\cdot 7\cdot \sum_{i=0}^{n-1}  {}_nC_i  \cdot 2^i  \cdot 7^{n-i-1} \\
    &= 7\cdot \left(2^n + 3\cdot \sum_{i=0}^{n-1}  {}_nC_i  \cdot 2^i  \cdot 7^{n-i-1} \right) \\
  \end{aligned}`$
- pf. 2) Induction
  - $`n=1`$
    - $`2^{1+2} + 3^{2\cdot 1+1} = 8 + 27 = 35 = 7 \cdot 5`$
  - Suppose the property holds for $`n=k`$.
    - Then $`\exists x\in \mathbb{N}, 2^{k+2} + 3^{2k+1} = 7x`$.
  - Consider $`n=k+1`$.
    - Then    
      $`\begin{aligned}
          2^{(k+1)+2} + 3^{2(k+1)+1} &= 2\cdot 2^{k+2} + 9\cdot 3^{2k+1} \\
          &= 2 \cdot (2^{k+2} + 3^{2k+1}) + 7\cdot 3^{2k+1} \\
          &= 2 \cdot 7x + 7 \cdot 3^{2k+1} \\
          &= 7\cdot (2x + 3^{2k+1})
      \end{aligned}`$
  - Therefore, $`\forall n \ge 1, \exists x\in \mathbb{N} \textrm{ s.t. } 2^{n+2} + 3^{2n+1} = 7x`$

<br>

### E.g.) Autocities
- Target
  - Def.)
    - **Autocity** is a city that has a road that leads to some other city.
  - Claim)
    - In any collection of $`n`$ autocities there is a way to get from any city to any other city.
- Sol.)
  - False.
  - pf.)
    - Counter example.
      - Suppose there are four autocities, 1,2,3, and 4.
      - 1 and 2 are connected.
      - 3 and 4 are connected.
      - No other connections.
      - Then there is no way to get from 1 to 4.

<br>

### E.g.) Shaking Hands 
$${\color{red} \star \; Be careful! \star }$$
- Target
  - Prove that in a group of $`N`$ people, if some of them shake hands, there are at least two who have the same number of handshakes.
- pf.)
  - Consider the case that $`N=2`$.
    - Then there can be two cases.
      - None of them shook their hands.
        - Then, there are two people with zero shake.
          - The theorem holds.
      - They shook their hands.
        - Then, there are two people with one shake respectively.
          - The theorem holds.
  - Consider the case with $`N=n \gt 2`$.
    - Suppose the theorem holds.
    - There can be two cases.
      - Case 1)
        - There exists $`k \lt n`$ people who never shook their hands.
        - Then, the theorem still holds for $`n-k`$ people.
      - Case 2)
        - Everyone had at least one hand shake.
        - Then the possible number of handshake that each person can have must be in $`\{1,2,\cdots, n-1\}`$.
          - Why?) One can have maximum of $`n-1`$ handshakes.
        - Since there are $`n`$ people choosing from the $`n-1`$ options, there must be at least two people having the same number of handshakes.

<br><br>

- [Back to Main](../main.md)