- [Back to Main](../main.md)

# 16. Induction 2
### Concept) Strong Induction
- Template)
  - Let
    - $`P(n)`$ be a predicate parametrized by a natural number $`n`$.
    - $`a\le b`$
      - where $`a,b\in \mathbb{R}`$.
  - Then
    - $`P(n)`$ is true for all $`n\ge a`$, if the following two conditions hold:
      1. The Base Case
         - $`P(a), P(a+1), \cdots, P(b-1)`$ are true.
      2. Inductive Step
         - $`\forall k \ge b`$
           - $`P(j) \textrm{ is true for } j \in [a,k) \Rightarrow P(k) \textrm{ is true }`$
  - Alternatively...
    - $`P(a) \wedge P(a+1) \wedge P(k-1) \rightarrow P(k), \forall k\ge b`$

<br>

#### E.g.) Division Theorem
- Theorem)
  - Let $`n`$ be a positive integer.
  - Then for every non negative integer $`m`$, there exist unique integers $`q`$ and $`r`$ such that $`m = nq+r`$ and $`0\le r \lt n`$.
- pf. by induction)
  - Case 1) $`m \lt n`$
    - For $`q = 0, m=r`$, the theorem holds.
  - Case 2) $`n \le m \lt 2n`$
    - Then $`m-n = (nq+r)-n = n(q-1)+r`$.
    - Thus, for $`q=1`$, $`0\le m-n = r \lt n`$
    - The theorem holds.
  - Case 3)
    - Consider $`k \in \mathbb{N}`$ such that $`kn \le m \lt (k+1)n`$
    - Suppose the theorem holds for $`k-1`$
      - i.e.) For $`m -n \in [(k-1)n, kn], \;\exists q',r' \textrm{ such that } m-n = nq' + r'`$
    - Then $`m = nq'+r' + n = n(q'+1)+r`$.
    - Since $`q'+1 \in \mathbb{N}`$, the theorem holds for $`k`$

<br>

#### E.g.) Chocolate Division
- Question)
  - You are given a rectangular chocolate bar consisting of $`n`$ chocolate squares. 
  - Your task is to split the bar into small squares (always breaking along the lines between the squares) with the minimum number of breaks. 
  - How many breaks will it take? Prove by induction that the result holds for any $`n`$.
- Sol.)
  - $`n-1`$
- Pf.)
  - Base cases observation)
    - Case 1) $`n=1`$
      - Then the minimum number of breaks is 0.
    - Case 2) $`n=2`$
      - In this case the shape of the rectangle will be either $`(1\times2) \vee (2\times1)`$.
      - In both cases, the minimum number of breaks is 1.
    - Case 3) $`n=3`$
      - In this case the shape of the rectangle will be either $`(1\times3) \vee (3\times1)`$.
      - Split 1)
        - In either case, we choose the maximum length and split them into two pieces : $`(1\times2)`$ and $`(1\times1)`$
      - Split 2)
        - Only $`(1\times2)`$ requires one additional break.
      - Thus, the total number of breaks is 2.
  - Pf. by Induction)
    - Put $`P(n)`$ a predicate that "If a rectangle contains $`n`$ squares of chocolate, the minimum number of breaks is $`n-1`$."
    - Then $`P(1), P(2), P(3)`$ holds.
    - Consider $`k>3`$.
    - Then for $`n = k`$, $`\exists p,q\in\mathbb{N} \textrm{ s.t. } n=k=p+q`$.
    - Suppose $`P(p), P(q)`$ holds.
    - Then $`P(n) = P(k) = 1+P(p)+P(q) = 1+(p-1)+(q-1) = p+q-1 = k-1`$

<br>

#### E.g.) Nim
- Question)
  - In the parlour game Nim, there are two players and two piles of matches. 
  - At each turn, a player removes some (non-zero) number of matches from one of the piles. 
  - The player who removes the last match wins. 
  - If the two piles contain the same number of matches at the start of the game, then the second player can always win. 
  - Figure out what the strategy for winning is and then prove this strategy does guarantee a win by using induction.
- Sol.)
  - Case 1)
    - Both piles have exactly one match respectively.
    - Then the first player can remove one match from an either pile and the second player can win by removing the rest.
  - Case 2)
    - Both piles have $`n`$ matches where $`n \gt 1`$.
    - Suppose the first player removes $`k`$ matches from a pile where $`k = n`$.
      - Then the player can remove the same $`k`$ matches from the other pile and win the game.
    - Suppose the first player removes $`k`$ matches from a pile where $`k \lt n`$.
      - Then the player can remove the same $`k`$ matches from the other pile.
      - The game is reduced to the case with $`n-k`$ matches for each pile.

<br>

#### E.g.) Cans
- Question)
  - Suppose that cans of juice come in packs of 3 or 4. 
  - We would like to be able to buy $`n`$ cans of juice for any $`n`$. 
  - For which values of $`n`$ is this possible? 
  - We would like to show for $`n \ge 6`$, it is possible to buy a combination of 3-packs and 4-packs so that the total number of cans is exactly $`n`$.
- Sol.)
  - Case 1) $`n = 3k`$
    - One can buy $`k`$ number of 3-packs.
  - Case 2) $`n = 4k`$
    - One can buy $`k`$ number of 4-packs.
  - Case 3) $`\nexists k, (n=3k \vee n=4k)`$
    - Consider that $`\exists p \ge 0, q\in\{1,2,5,7,10,11\}`$ 
      - such that $`n = 12p + q`$
    - Case 3-1) $`q\in \{7,10,11\}`$
      - Consider that $`\begin{cases}
        7&=3\times1+4\times1 \\ 10&=3\times2+4\times1 \\ 11&=3\times1+4\times2
      \end{cases}`$
      - Thus, $`\forall q \in \{7,10,11\}, \; \exists x,y \textrm{ such that } q = 3x+4y$
      - Hence, $`n = 12p+q = (3\times4)p + (3x+4y) = 3(p+x) + 4(p+y)`$
    - Case 3-3) $`q\in \{1,2,5\}`$
      - Since $`n \ge 6`$, $`p \ge 1`$.
      - Thus, $`n = 12p + q = 12(p-1) + 12 + q`$
      - Consider that $`12+q \in \{13, 14, 17\}`$.
      - Case 3-1) Show that $`12+q`$ can be denoted as $`3x+4y, \exists x,y`$.
      - Hence, $`n = 12(p-1) + 12 + q = (3\times4)(p-1) + (3x+4y) = 3(p-1+x) + 4(p-1+y)`$


<br><br>

- [Back to Main](../main.md)