[Back to main](../../main.md)

# Vectors and Vector Spaces

### Concept) Group
- Def.)
  - A group is a **set** $`G`$ equipped with a binary operation $`\cdot : G\times G \rightarrow G`$ that
    - associates an element $`a\cdot b \in G`$ to $`\forall a,b\in G`$
    - has properties:
      - $`\cdot`$ is associative
        - i.e.) $`\forall a,b,c \in G, a\cdot(b\cdot c) = (a\cdot b)\cdot c`$
      - $`\cdot`$ has an identity element $`e\in G`$
        - i.e.) $`\exists e \in G \textrm{ s.t. }  \forall a\in G, a\cdot e = e\cdot a = a`$
      - Every element in $`G`$ is invertible w.r.t. $`\cdot`$.
        - i.e.) $`\forall a\in G, \exists a^{-1}\in G \textrm{ s.t. } a\cdot a^{-1} = a^{-1}\cdot a = e`$
- e.g.)
  - $`\mathbf{GL}(n,\mathbb{R})`$ (the general linear group, i.e. $`n\times n`$ invertible matrices with real coefficients) is a group under matrix multiplication.
    - with $`e = I_n`$
  - $`\mathbf{GL}(n,\mathbb{C})`$ is a group under matrix multiplication.
    - with $`e = I_n`$
  - $`\mathbf{SL}(n,\mathbb{R})`$ (the special linear group, i.e. $`n\times n`$ invertible matrices with real coefficients and determinant is $`1`$) is a group under matrix multiplication.
    - with $`e = I_n`$
  - $`\mathbf{SL}(n,\mathbb{C})`$ (the special linear group, i.e. $`n\times n`$ invertible matrices with real coefficients and determinant is $`1`$) is a group under matrix multiplication.
    - with $`e = I_n`$


<br>

### Concept) Abelian Group (Commutative Group)
- Def.)
  - A [group](#concept-group) $`G`$ is **abelian** (or commutative) if
    - $`a\cdot b = b\cdot a, \forall a,b\in G`$
- e.g.)
  - $`\mathbb{Z}`$ is an abelian group under addition.
  - $`\mathbb{Q}`$ (rational numbers, 유리수) is an abelian group under addition.
  - $`\mathbb{Q} - \{0\}`$ is an abelian group under multiplication.
  - $`\mathbb{R}`$ is an abelian group under addition.
  - $`\mathbb{R} - \{0\}`$ is an abelian group under multiplication.
  - $`\mathbb{C}`$ (complex numbers, 복소수) is an abelian group under addition.
  - $`\mathbb{C} - \{0\}`$ is an abelian group under multiplication.
  - $`\mathbb{R}^n`$ ($`n`$-tuples of real numbers) are abelian groups under component-wise addition.
    - e.g.) $`(x_1, x_2, \cdots, x_n) + (y_1, y_2, \cdots, y_n) = (x_1+y_1, x_2+y_2, \cdots, x_n+y_n)`$
      - with $`e = (0, 0, \cdots, 0)`$
  - $`\mathbb{C}^n`$ ($`n`$-tuples of complex numbers) are abelian groups under component-wise addition.
  - $`\mathbb{M}_n(\mathbb{R})`$ (the set of $`n\times n`$ matrices with real coefficients) is an abelian group under addition of matrices.
    - $`e = 0_n`$
  - $`\mathbb{M}_n(\mathbb{C})`$ (the set of $`n\times n`$ matrices with complex coefficients) is an abelian group under addition of matrices.
    - $`e = 0_n`$
  - $`\mathbb{R}[X]`$ (the set of all polynomials in one variable $`X`$ with real coefficients) is an abelian group under addition of polynomials.
    - e.g.) $`P(X) = a_n X^n + a_{n-1}X^{n-1} + \cdots + a_1 X + a_0`$
      - with $`e = 0`$

<br>

### Concept) Monoid
- Def.)
  - A set $`M`$ with an operation $`\cdot : M\times M \rightarrow M`$ that satisfies only
    - associativity
      - i.e.) $`\forall a,b,c \in M, a\cdot(b\cdot c) = (a\cdot b)\cdot c`$
    - identity
      - i.e.) $`\exists e \in M \textrm{ s.t. }  \forall a\in M, a\cdot e = e\cdot a = a`$
  - No inverse!
- e.g.)
  - The set $`\{0,1,2,\cdots\}`$ of natural numbers under addition are monoids.
    - Why?) 
      - $`e = 0`$
      - No inverse : Counter-ex : $`\nexists x\in \{0,1,2,\cdots\} \textrm{ s.t. } 1+x = e`$
  - $`\mathbb{Z} - \{0\}`$ is a commutative monoid under multiplication.
    - Why?)
      - $`e = 1`$
      - No inverse : Counter-ex : $`\nexists x\in \mathbb{Z} - \{0\} \textrm{ s.t. } 2*x = e`$

<br>

### Concept) Ring
- Def.)
  - A set $`A`$ equipped with two operations $`+`$ (addition) and $`*`$ (multiplication) having following properties.
    - (R1) $`A`$ is an [abelian group](#concept-abelian-group-commutative-group) w.r.t. $`+`$.
      - $`a+(b+c) = (a+b)+c`$
      - $`a+0 = 0+a = a`$
      - $`a+(-a) = (-a) + a = 0`$
      - $`a+b = b+a`$
    - (R2) $`*`$ is associative and has an identity element $`1\in A`$.
      - $`a*(b*c) = (a*b)*c`$
      - $`a*1 = 1*a = a`$
    - (R3) $`*`$ is distributive w.r.t. $`+`$.
      - $`(a+b)*c = (a*c) + (b*c)`$
      - $`a*(b+c) = (a*b) + (a*c)`$
- Prop.)
  - A ring is **commutative** if
    - $`a*b = b*a, \forall a,b\in A`$
  - $`A=\{0\}`$ is a **trivial** ring.
    - Why?)
      - From (R3) we can derive $`\begin{cases} a*0 = 0*a = 0 \\ a*(-b) = (-a)*b = -(a*b) \\ \end{cases}`$.
      - Then, $`(1=0) \Rightarrow (a=0, \forall a\in A)`$
    - cf.) $`1\ne 0`$ is nontrivial.

<br>

### Concept) Field
- Def.)
  - A set $`K`$ is a **field** if it is a [ring](#concept-ring) and the following properties hold:
    - (F1) $`0\ne1`$
    - (F2) $`\forall a \in K, (a\ne 0) \Rightarrow (a \textrm{ has an inverse w.r.t. } *)`$
    - (F3) $`*`$ is commutative.
- Prop.)
  - Skew Field
    - Def.) (F1) and (F2) hold but $`*`$ is **not commutative**.

<br>

### Concept.) Vector Space
#### Def.)
- A real vector space is a set $`E`$ (of vectors) together with two operations $`+`$ (the vector addition) and $`\cdot`$ (the scalar multiplication) satisfying the following five conditions for all $`\alpha, \beta \in \mathbb{R}`$ and all $`u,v\in E`$ :
  - Conditions)
    - (V0) $`E`$ is an [abelian group](#concept-abelian-group-commutative-group) w.r.t. $`+`$ with identity element $`0`$.
       - i.e.) $`E`$ satisfies the following four axioms $`\forall u, v \in E`$
         1. Associativity : $`\forall w\in E, u+(v+w) = (u+v)+w`$
         2. Identity : $`\exists 0 \in E \textrm{ s.t. } v+0 = 0+v = v`$
         3. Inverse : $`\exists (-v) \textrm{ s.t. } v+(-v) = (-v)+v=0`$
         4. Commutativity : $`v+u = u+v`$
    - (V1) $`\forall\alpha \in \mathbb{R}, \alpha\cdot(u+v) = (\alpha\cdot u) + (\alpha\cdot v)`$
    - (V2) $`\forall\alpha,\beta \in \mathbb{R}, (\alpha + \beta)\cdot u = (\alpha\cdot u) + (\beta\cdot u)`$
    - (V3) $`\forall\alpha,\beta\in \mathbb{R}, (\alpha * \beta)\cdot u = \alpha\cdot(\beta\cdot u)`$
       - where $`*`$ denotes the multiplication in $`\mathbb{R}`$
    - (V4) $`1\cdot u = u`$

#### Prop.)
- Given $`\alpha \in \mathbb{R}`$ and $`v\in E`$, the element $`\alpha\cdot v`$ is also denoted by $`\alpha v`$.
  - The [field](#concept-field) $`\mathbb{R}`$ is often called the **field of scalars**.
- Complex Vector Space
  - $`\mathbb{R}`$ can be replaced by the field of complex numbers(복소수) $`\mathbb{C}`$.
  - Then we can have **complex vector space**.

#### E.g.)
- The [fields](#concept-field) $`\mathbb{R}`$ and $`\mathbb{C}`$ are vector spaces over $`\mathbb{R}`$.
- The [groups](#concept-group) $`\mathbb{R}^n`$ and $`\mathbb{C}^n`$ are vector spaces over $`\mathbb{R}`$
  - with 
    - scalar multiplication given by $`\lambda(x_1, \cdots, x_n) = (\lambda x_1, \cdots, \lambda x_n), \forall \lambda \in \mathbb{R}`$
    - $`((x_1, \cdots, x_n)\in\mathbb{R}) \vee ((x_1, \cdots, x_n)\in\mathbb{C})`$
- The [group](#concept-group) $`\mathbb{C}^n`$ is a vector space over $`\mathbb{C}`$ with $`\lambda \in \mathbb{C}`$.
- The [ring](#concept-ring) $`\mathbb{R}[X]_n`$ of polynomials of degree at most $`n`$ with real coefficients is a vector space over $`\mathbb{R}`$
  - with scalar multiplication as follows.
    - For $`m\le n`$, $`\displaystyle P(X) = \sum_{i=0}^m a_i X^i`$, and $`a_i, \lambda\in\mathbb{R}`$
      - $`\displaystyle \lambda\cdot P(X) = \sum_{i=0}^m \lambda a_i X^i`$
- The [ring](#concept-ring) $`\mathbb{C}[X]_n`$ of polynomials of degree at most $`n`$ with complex coefficients is a vector space over $`\mathbb{C}`$
  - with scalar multiplication as follows.
    - For $`m\le n`$, $`\displaystyle P(X) = \sum_{i=0}^m a_i X^i`$, and $`a_i, \lambda\in\mathbb{C}`$
      - $`\displaystyle \lambda\cdot P(X) = \sum_{i=0}^m \lambda a_i X^i`$
- The [ring](#concept-ring) of $`n\times n`$ matrices $`M_n(\mathbb{R})`$ is a vector space over $`\mathbb{R}`$.
- The [ring](#concept-ring) of $`m\times n`$ matrices $`M_{m,n}(\mathbb{R})`$ is a vector space over $`\mathbb{R}`$.
- The [ring](#concept-ring) of continuous functions $`f:(a,b)\rightarrow\mathbb{R}`$ is a vector space over $`\mathbb{R}`$ with scalar multiplication $`\lambda f`$ given by 
  - $`(\lambda f)(x) = \lambda f(x), \forall x\in (a,b)`$




<br><br>

[Back to main](../../main.md)