[Back to main](../../main.md)

# 2.4 Linear Independence and Subspaces
### Tech.) Using Families instead of Sets
- Defining the concept of [linear independence](#concept-linear-independence) and [linear dependence](#concept-linear-dependence) below, we will use [families](03.md#22-indexed-families) instead of [sets](03.md#concept-index-set).
- The reason that we do this is because the definition of linear combinations for [families](03.md#22-indexed-families) of vectors has the advantage that the vectors being combined need not be distinct.
  - i.e.) Allowing multiple occurrences of vectors.
  - e.g.)
    - Consider $`I=\{1,2,3\}`$ and the families $`(u,v,u)`$ and $`(\lambda_1, \lambda_2, \lambda_1)`$.
    - Then, their linear combination is $`\displaystyle\sum_{i\in I}\lambda_i u_i = \lambda_1 u + \lambda_2 v + \lambda_1 u`$
  - When used?)
    - Consider a matrix containing identical columns.
      - We will say that the matrix is linearly dependent, which is only allowed under the definition of linear dependence of families, not the sets.
- On the other hand, using [sets](03.md#concept-index-set) of vectors in the definition of a linear combination does not allow
such linear combinations due to the violation on the uniqueness.
- Thus, in order to define the [linear dependence](#concept-linear-dependence), using a [family](03.md#22-indexed-families) is more proper.

<br>

### Concept) Vector Space and Linear Combination
- Def.)
  - Let $`E`$ be a vector space.
  - A vector $`v \in E`$ is a **linear combination** of a family $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ of elements of $`E`$
    - iff. there is a family $`(\lambda_i)_{i\in I}`$ of scalars in $`\mathbb{R}`$ such that
      - $`\displaystyle v = \sum_{i\in I} \lambda_i u_i`$
  - cf.) When $`I = \emptyset`$, we stipulate that $`v = 0`$.

<br>

### Concept) Linear Independence
- Def.)
  - A family $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ is linearly independent 
    - iff. for every family $`(\lambda_i)_{i\in I}`$ of scalars in $`\mathbb{R}`$,
      - $`\displaystyle \left(\sum_{i\in I} \lambda_i u_i = 0 \right) \Rightarrow \left(\lambda_i = 0, \forall i \in I \right)`$.
  - cf.) When $`I = \emptyset`$, the family $`\emptyset`$ is linearly independent.
- Prop.)
  - This definition actually implies that a nontrivial linearly independent [family](03.md#22-indexed-families) is a [set](03.md#concept-index-set)!

<br>

### Concept) Linear Dependence
- Def.)
  - A family $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ is linearly dependent 
    - iff. there is some family $`(\lambda_i)_{i\in I}`$ of scalars in $`\mathbb{R}`$ such that
      - $`\displaystyle \sum_{i\in I} \lambda_i u_i = 0`$ and $`\lambda_j \ne 0, \exists j\in I`$
- cf.)
  - We used [families](03.md#22-indexed-families) in order to properly define linear dependence.













<br><br>

[Back to main](../../main.md)