[Back to main](../../main.md)

# 1.6 Linear Maps
### Concept) Linear Map (Homomorphism of Vector Spaces)
- Def.) 
  - Given two [vector spaces](02.md#concept-vector-space) $`E`$ and $`F`$,
    - a **linear map** between $`E`$ and $`F`$ is a function $`f:E\rightarrow F`$ satisfying the following two conditions:
      - (1) $`f(x+y) = f(x)+f(y), \forall x,y\in E`$
      - (2) $`f(\lambda x) = \lambda f(x), \forall \lambda\in\mathbb{R}, x\in E`$
- Prop.)
  - Setting $`x=y=0`$, we get $`f(0)=0`$ from (1).
  - Linear maps transform linear combinations into linear combinations.
    - i.e.)
      - Given 
        - any finite family $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ of vectors in $`E`$
        - any family $`(\lambda_i){i\in I}`$ of scalars in $`\mathbb{R}`$
      - we have
        - $`\displaystyle f\left( \sum_{i\in I} \lambda_i u_i \right) = \sum_{i\in I} \lambda_i f(u_i)`$
- e.g.)
  - The map $`f:\mathbb{R}^2\rightarrow\mathbb{R}^2`$ s.t. $`\begin{cases} x' = x-y \\ y'=x+y \end{cases}`$ is a linear map.
  - For any vector space $`E`$, the identity map $`id_E:E\rightarrow E`$ given by $`id_E(u) = u, \forall u\in E`$ is a linear map.
  - The map $`D:\mathbb{R}[X]\rightarrow\mathbb{R}[X]`$ s.t. $`D(f(X)) = f'(X)`$ 
    - where f'(X) is the derivative of the polynomial f(X) is a linear map.
  - The map $`\Phi:\mathcal{C}([a,b]) \rightarrow \mathbb{R}`$ given by $`\displaystyle \Phi(f) = \int_a^b f(t)dt`$ is a linear map
    - where $`\mathcal{C}([a,b])`$ is the set of continuous functions defined on the interval $`[a,b]`$

<br>

### Concept) Image of a Linear Map
- Def.)
  - Given a linear map $`f:E\rightarrow F`$
    - we define **its image** $`\textrm{Im}f = f(E)`$ as the set
      - $`\textrm{Im} f = \{y\in F | (\exists x \in E) (y=f(x))\}`$
- Prop.)
  - The set $`\textrm{Im} f`$ is a subspace of $`F`$

<br>

### Concept) Rank of a Linear Map
- Def.)
  - Define $`\textrm{rk}(f)`$ as the rank of the linear map $`f`$.
- Prop.)
  - $`\textrm{rk}(f) = \textrm{dim}(\textrm{Im} f)`$
    - Why?)
      - The set $`\textrm{Im} f`$ is a subspace of $`F`$

<br>

### Concept) Kernel of a Linear Map (Nullspace)
- Def.)
  - Given a linear map $`f:E\rightarrow F`$
    - we define **its image** $`\textrm{Ker}f = f^{-1}(0)`$ as the set
      - $`\textrm{Ker} f = \{x\in E | f(x)=0\}`$
- Prop.)
  - The set $`\textrm{Ker} f`$ is a subspace of $`E`$

<br>

### Concept) Injective Linear Map
- Def.)
  - A linear map $`f:E\rightarrow E`$ is injective
    - iff. $`\textrm{Ker} f=(0)`$
      - where $`(0)`$ is the trivial space $`\{0\}`$

<br>

### Proposition 1.14) Bases in a Vector is a Unique
- Theorem)
  - Given
    - any two vector spaces $`E`$ and $`F`$
    - any basis $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ of $`E`$
    - any family of vectors $`(v_i)_{i\in I}`$ in $`F`$,
  - there is a unique linear map $`f: E\rightarrow F`$ s.t. $`f(u_i) = v_i, \forall i\in I`$
- Special Case
  - $`E = K^n`$ and $`E = K^m`$
    - Pf. using matrices with [Proposition 1.10](06.md#110-criterion-for-invertibility-1))
      - Let 
        - $`u_1, \cdots, u_n \in K^n`$ define an $`n\times n`$ matrix $`U`$
          - i,e) $`U = (u_1 \cdots u_n)`$
            - whose $`j`$-th column is $`u_j`$ 
        - $`v_1, \cdots, v_n \in K^m`$ define an $`m\times n`$ matrix $`V`$
          - i,e) $`V = (v_1 \cdots v_n)`$
            - whose $`j`$-th column is $`v_j`$ 
      - If $`A`$ is the matrix of the linear map $`f: K^n \rightarrow K^m`$ which must satisfy the conditions $`f(u_j) = v_j`$ for $`j=1,\cdots, n`$
        - we must have $`A u_j = v_j, 1\le j \le n`$
          - which is equivalent to $`AU = V`$.
      - Since $`u_1, \cdots, u_n`$ are linearly independent, $`U`$ is invertible.
      - Thus, $`A = VU^{-1}`$ : the unique linear map!

### Concept) Injective / Surjective
- Def.)
  - From [Prop. 1.14](#proposition-114-bases-in-a-vector-is-a-unique),
    - $`f`$ is injective iff. $`(v_i)_{i\in I}`$ is linearly independent.
    - $`f`$ is surjective iff. $`(v_i)_{i\in I}`$ generates $`F`$.

### Concept) Bijective
- If $`f`$ is bijective, an [injective linear map](#concept-injective-linear-map) sends a basis $`(u_i){i\in I}`$ to linearly independent family $`(f(u_i))_{i\in I}`$ of $`F`$.
  - i.e.) $`(f(u_i))_{i\in I}`$ is a basis of $`F`$.

### Prop)
- If 
  - $`E`$ and $`F`$ have the same finite dimension $`n`$,
  - $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ is a basis of $`E`$
  - $`f: E\rightarrow F`$ is injective
- Then $`f(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ is a basis of $`F`$.

<br>

### Proposition 1.15)
- Let
  - $`E`$ : a vector space
  - $`F`$ : a non trivial vector space
  - $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ : a family of vectors in $`E`$
- Then the following properties hold.
  - (1) The family $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ generates $`E`$ 
    - iff. for every family of vectors $`(v_i)_{i\in I}`$ in $`F`$,
      - there is **at most** one linear map $`f:E\rightarrow F`$ s.t. $`f(u_i) = v_i, \forall i\in I`$
  - (2) The family $`(u_i)_{i\in I}`$ is linearly independent
    - iff. for every family of vectors $`(v_i)_{i\in I}`$ in $`F`$,
      - there is some linear map $`f:E\rightarrow F`$ s.t. $`f(u_i) = v_i, \forall i\in I`$

<br>

### Concept) Isomorphism
- Def.)
  - A linear map $`f: E\rightarrow F`$ is an isomorphism
    - iff. there is a linear map $`g:F\rightarrow E`$
      - s.t. $`g \circ f = \textrm{id}_E`$ and $`f \circ g = \textrm{id}_F`$
- Props.)
  - $`g`$ is unique.
  - $`g`$ is called the inverse of $`f`$ and denoted by $`f^{-1}`$.
  - By [Proposition 1.14](#proposition-114-bases-in-a-vector-is-a-unique),
    - if $`F=\mathbb{R}^n`$
      - then we get an isomorphism between any vector space $`E`$ of dimension $`|J| = n`$ and $`\mathbb{R}^n`$
  - If $`f:E\rightarrow F`$ is a bijective linear map,
    - then its inverse $`f^{-1}:F\rightarrow E`$ is also a linear map.
      - Thus, $`f`$ is an isomorphism.

<br>

### Proposition 1.16)
- Let 
  - $`E`$ : a vector space of finite dimension $`n \ge 1`$
  - $`f:E\rightarrow E`$ : any linear map
- Then the following properties hold.
  - (1) If $`f`$ has a **left inverse** $`g`$,
    - i.e.) $`g`$ is a linear map s.t. $`g\circ f = \textrm{id}`$
      - then $`f`$ is an isomorphism and $`f^{-1} = g`$
  - (2) If $`f`$ has a **right inverse** $`h`$,
    - i.e.) $`h`$ is a linear map s.t. $`f\circ h = \textrm{id}`$
      - then $`f`$ is an isomorphism and $`f^{-1} = h`$

<br>

### Concept) Homomorphism Set
- Def.)
  - The set of all linear maps between two vector spaces $`E`$ and $`F`$ is denoted by $`\textrm{Hom}(E,F)`$ or by $`\mathcal{L}(E;F)`$
  - To be more precise and specify the field $`K`$ over which the vector spaces $`E`$ and $`F`$ are defined, we write $`\textrm{Hom}_K(E,F)`$
- Props.)
  - $`\textrm{Hom}(E,F)`$ is a vector space under the operations
    - $`(f+g)(x) = f(x)+g(x), \forall x \in E`$
    - $`(\lambda f)(x) = \lambda f(x), \forall x \in E`$
  - When $`E`$ and $`F`$ have finite dimensions,
    - the vector space $`\textrm{Hom}(E,F)`$ also has finite dimension.

<br>

### Concept) Endomorphism
- Def.)
  - When $`E=F`$
    - a linear map $`f:E\rightarrow E`$ is also called an endomorphism.
  - cf.) $`\textrm{Hom}(E,E) = \textrm{End}(E,E)`$
- Prop.)
  - $`\textrm{Hom}(E,E)`$ is a [ring](02.md#concept-ring) structure.
    - i.e.)
      - Associative
      - Has an identity $`\textrm{id}_E`$
      - Distributive
        - $`(g_1+g_2)\circ f = g_1\circ f + g_2\circ f`$
        - $`g\circ (f_1+f_2) = g\circ f_1 + g\circ f_2`$
    - cf.) But non commutative.

<br>

### Concept) Automorphism (Bijective Linear Maps)
- Def.)
  - The set of bijective linear maps $`f:E\rightarrow E`$ are called automorphisms.
- Props.)
  - The set of bijective linear maps $`f:E\rightarrow E`$ is a [group](02.md#concept-group) under composition.
  - $`GL(E) = \textrm{Aut}(E)`$
    - The group of automorphism of $`E`$ is called the general linear group.
      - if $`E = \mathbb{R}^n`$, $`GL(n, \mathbb{R})`$ or $`GL(n)`$


<br><br>

[Back to main](../../main.md)