[Back to Main](../main.md)

# 6. Pipes
### Concept) Pipe
- Desc.)
  - Creates a unidirectional data channel for inter [process](04.md#concept-process) communication (IPC).
  - Communication through [file descriptors](05.md#concept-file-descriptor-table).
- Def.)
  ```cpp
  #include <unistd.h>

  int pipe(int pipefd[2]);
  ```
  - Desc.)
    - Input Argument
      - `pipefd` is an integer array with the size 2.
    - What it does)
      - In the [file descriptor table](05.md#concept-file-descriptor-table) the lowest available file descriptors will be assigned to...
        - `pipefd[0]` : the read end of this pipe
        - `pipefd[1]` : the write end of this pipe
      - The array `pipefd` will be filled with...
        - `pipefd[0]` : the read file descriptor
        - `pipefd[1]` : the write file descriptor
          - These descriptors can be used by passing them to the `read()` and the `write()` function. 
    - Output
      - Returns `0` if succeeds
      - Returns `1` if fails
- Props.)
  - The file descriptors created by `pipe()` are managed by the kernel. 
    - When you call `fork()` after calling `pipe()`, a child process is created with its own **independent copy** of the parent's file descriptor table. 
    - The parent and the child processes each have their respective file descriptor tables. 
      - These tables are independent in memory. 
    - However, the actual file descriptors (values returned by `pipe()`, such as `pipe_fds[0]` and `pipe_fds[1]`) in both the parent and child point to the **same underlying pipe resource** managed by the kernel. 
    - This coordination happens because the kernel ensures that file descriptors reference the **same underlying object** (in this case, a pipe) regardless of which process owns them. 


<br><br>

#### Concept) I/O Streams
- Desc.)
  - A linear sequence of bytes/characters that we can read bytes from or write bytes to

#### Concept) EOF
- Desc.)
  - End of File
  - This indicates that there is nothing left to read from a stream.


<br><br>

[Back to Main](../main.md)